Case 1 (Model Answer):
1. Question 1 requires a discussion of whether the conclusion of the CFA triggers an obligation to publish ìinside informationî pursuant to article 17(1) MAR. 
a) On the facts of the case (i.e., new shareholder structure of Neon, combined influence of Gerry and Unicorn, substantial change of strategy, etc.), students would have to conclude that the conclusion of the CFA is inside information within the meaning of article 7(1)(a): 
aa) It relates to an issuer (Neon) and has not yet been made public.
bb) Even if the agreement depends on further implementing steps, it creates information of a precise nature within the meaning of article 7(2) MAR in that there is an event that has already occurred ñ the conclusion of the CFA ñ, which is sufficient even if one considered it only as an ìintermediate stepî of a ìprotracted processî. In addition, subsequent events ñ the capital increase ñ can ìreasonably be expected to occurî and therefore also qualify as information of a precise nature. A good answer would discuss the ìspecificityî requirement under article 7(2) MAR and mention that pursuant to the ECJ decision in Lafonta, it is sufficient for the information to be sufficiently specific to constitute a basis on which to assess the effect on the price of the financial instruments, and that the only information excluded by the specificity requirement is information that is ìvague or generalî. Also, the information is something a reasonable investor would likely use, and therefore likely to have a significant effect on prices within the meaning of article 7(4) MAR.
cc) The information ìdirectly concernsî the issuer in question. As a result, article 17(1) MAR requires Neon to ìinform the public as soon as possibleî. Students should mention that this allows issuers some time for fact-finding, but otherwise, immediate disclosure is required. Delay is only possible under article 17(4) MAR. However, there is nothing to suggest that Neon has a legitimate interest within the meaning of article 17(4)(a), and at any rate, given previous communication by Neon, a delay would be likely to mislead the public within the meaning of article 17(4)(b). Accordingly, a delay could not be justified under article 17(4) MAR.
Notabene: Subscribing to new shares not yet issued (as done in the CFA) does not trigger any disclosure obligations under ßß†38(1), 33(3) WpHG. At any rate, these would only be incumbent on Unicorn, not Neon. 
2. Question 2 requires an analysis of prospectus requirements under the Prospectus Regulation.
a) There is no public offer within the meaning of article 2(d) PR that would trigger a prospectus requirement under article 3(1) PR. However, pursuant to article 3(3) PR, admission of securities to trading on a regulated market requires prior publication of a prospectus. Neon shares qualify as securities under article 2(a) PR in conjunction with article 4(1)(44) MiFID†II. Students should discuss the fact that there is an exemption for this type of transaction under article 1(5)(a) PR, but that the exemption is limited to a capital increase of 20% or less so does not cover Neonís case. Accordingly, admission to trading requires publication of a prospectus (under article 21 PR), which in turn makes it necessary to have the prospectus approved under article 20(1) PR). A very complete answer would mention that Neon could benefit from the simplified disclosure regime for secondary issuances under article 14(1)(a) PR.
b) As regards the content of the prospectus, students are expected to explain that the prospectus would have to include all information in connection with the CFA that is material within the meaning of article 6(1) PR, in particular, as regards the prospects of Neon (article 6(1)(1)(a) PR) and the reasons for the issuance (article 6(1)(1)(c) PR). The prospectus would also have to describe material risks resulting from the CFA and the new strategy (article†16(1) PR). A good answer would mention that the ìcriterionî for materiality under German case law is whether an investor would ìrather than notî use the information for the investment decision.
3. The question requires candidates to address disclosure obligations under the Transparency Directive and the Takeover Bid Directive and implementing domestic German law. 
a) As Neonís shares are listed on a regulated market, Neon is an issuer within the meaning of ß†33(4) WpHG, so participations in Neon are subject to disclosure under ßß33ff. WpHG. Pursuant to ß†33(1) WpHG, Unicorn will have to disclose the acquisition of its stake in Neon. The relevant position to be disclosed includes the 23% stake held by Unicorn directly. In addition, Unicorn will have to take into account Gerryís 19% stake if the CFA qualifies as ìacting in concertî within the meaning of ß†34(2) WpHG. In this context, students should differentiate between the two types of acting in concert, namely (i) an agreement to align the exercise of voting rights which qualifies as acting in concert irrespectively of the impact on the issuerís strategy, and (ii) all other types of alignment which only qualify as acting in concert if it is aimed at modifying substantially the issuerís strategic orientation. On the facts of the case, both requirements are fulfilled. A good answer should discuss this in the light of the BGH case law, and ideally also consider whether case law on acting in concert under Wp‹G can and should be used to assess acting in concert under WpHG. A very complete answer would mention that Unicorn also has to make a statement of intent pursuant to ß 43(1) WpHG.
b) The acquisition of the new shares is also subject to Wp‹G requirements pursuant to ß†1(1) Wp‹G as the shares issued by Neon are securities within the meaning of ß†2(2) Wp‹G and admitted to trading on a regulated market. Pursuant to ß†35(1)(1) Wp‹G, Unicorn has to disclose the fact that it acquired ìcontrolî in Neon and publish an offer document submit a draft offer to BaFin, ßß†35(2)(1), 14(2)(1) Wp‹G. ìControlî is defined as the acquisition of 30% or more in an issuer, ß†29(2) Wp‹G. The 23% stake held by Unicorn directly would not qualify as ìcontrolî triggering a mandatory bid requirement. However, ß†30(2) Wp‹G requires to include in the calculation shares held by other parties with which Unicorn is acting in concert, i.e., Gerryís 19% stake (students may refer to the discussion of acting in concert under ß†34(2) WpHG). The relevant position totals 42% and therefore the disclosure requirements under ß†35(1) Wp‹G.
c) Failure to disclose under ß†33 WpHG/ß†35 Wp‹G will suspend Unicornís shareholder rights under ß†44 WpHG, ß†59 Wp‹G. No such sanction exists as regards failure to make a statement of intent under ß†43(1) WpHG.
